.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RADIUM 8 "21 October 2001"
.SH NAME
radium \- argus record multiplexor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radium
[
.B options
] [
.B filter expression
]
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient, LLC   All rights reserved.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "radium command"  ""  "\fLradium\fP \(em Internet audit facility"
.IX  servers  radium  ""  "\fLradium\fP \(em Internet audit facility"
.LP
.B Radium
is a real-time Argus Record multiplexor that processes Argus records
and Netflow records and outputs them to any number of client
programs and files.
.B Radium
is a combination of the features of ra.1 and argus.8, supporting access
for upto 128 client programs to argus records originating from remote
data sources and/or local managed argus data files.  Using
.B radium
you can construct complex distribution networks for collecting and
processing argus data, and providing a single point for accessing
archived argus data, as well.

.LP
Designed to run as a daemon,
.B radium
generally reads argus records directly from a remote argus, and writes the
transaction status information to a log file or open socket connected to an
.B argus
client (such as
.BR ra(1) ).
.B Radium
provides the same data access controls as argus.8, including
remote filtering, source address based access control, indivual
oriented strong authentication and confidentiality protection for
the distributed data, using \fBSASL\fP and \fBtcp_wrapper\fP
technology.  Please refer to the INSTALL and README files for
each distribution for a complete description.
.LP
.B Radium
is normally configured from a system \fB/etc/radium.conf\fP configuration file,
or from a configuration file either in the \fB$RADIUMHOME\fP directory, or specified
on the command line.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5 5
.B \-b
Dump the compiled packet-matching code to stdout and stop.  This is
used to debug filter expressions.
.TP 5 5
.B \-B
<addr>
Specify the bind interface address for remote access.  Acceptable values
are IP version 4 addresses.  The default is to bind to INADDR_ANY
address.
.TP 5 5
.BI \-d
Run radium as a daemon.  This will cause radium to do the things that
Unix daemons do and return, if there were no errors, with radium
running as a detached process.
.TP 5 5
.BI \-D
<level>
Print debug messages to stderr. When compiled to support debug printing,
the higher the \fB<level>\fP the more information printed.  Acceptable
levels are 1-8.
.TP 5 5
.BI \-e
<value>
Specify the source identifier for this \fBradium\fP.  Acceptable values are
numbers, hostnames or ip address.
.TP 5 5
.B \-h
Print an explanation of all the arguments.
.TP 5 5
.B \-F
Use \fIconffile\fP as a source of configuration information.
Options set in this file override any other specification, and so 
this is the last word on option values.
.TP 5 5
.B \-O
Turn off Berkeley Packet Filter optimizer.  No reason to do this unless
you think the optimizer generates bad code.
.TP 5 5
.B \-p
Override the persistent connection facility.
.B Radium
provides a fault tolerant feature for its remote argus data access 
facility.  If the remote argus data source closes, 
.B radium
will maintain its client connections, and attempt to reestablish
its connection with remote source.  This option overrides this behavior,
causing
.B radium
to terminate if any of its remote sources closes.
.TP 5 5
.BI \-P
<portnum>
Specifies the \fB<portnum>\fP for remote client connection.
The default is to not support remote access.
Setting the value to zero (0) will forceably turn off the
facility.
.TP 5 5
.B \-r
Read from
.B argus(8) ,
data files.
.B Radium
will read from only one input data file at a time.
If the
.B \-r
option is specified,
.B radium
will not put down a
.B listen(2)
to support remote access.
.TP 5 5
.B \-S
<host[:port]>
Specify a remote \fIargus-server\fP \fB<host>\fP.  Appending an
port specifier is required to attach to a port different than
the port value specified with the \fB-P\fP option, or the default.
.TP 5 5
.B \-T threshold[smh] (secs)
Indicate that \fIradium\fP should correct the timestamps of
received \fIargus\fP records, if they are out of sync by threshold
secconds.  Threshold can be specified with the extensions s, m, or
h for seconds, minutes or hours.
.TP 5 5
.B \-w
<file ["filter"]
Write transaction status records to \fIoutput-file\fP.  An \fIoutput-file\fP
of '-' directs \fBradium\fP to write the resulting \fIradium-file\fP output
to \fIstdout\fP.
.TP 5 5
.B \-X
Clear existing radium configuration.  This removes any initialization done prior
to encountering this flag.  Allows you to eliminate the effects of the
\fI/etc/radium.conf\fP file, or any radium.conf files that may have been loaded.
.TP 5 5
.B \fIexpression\fP
This
.B tcpdump(1)
expression
specifies which transactions will be selected.  If no \fIexpression\fP
is given, all transactions are selected.  Otherwise,
only transactions for which \fIexpression\fP is `true' will be dumped.
For a complete \fIexpression\fP format description, please refer to the
.B tcpdump(1)
man page.

.SH SIGNALS
\fBRadium\fP catches a number of \fBsignal(3)\fP events.
The three signals \fBSIGHUP\fP, \fBSIGINT\fP, and \fBSIGTERM\fP
cause \fBradium\fP to exit, writing TIMEDOUT status records for
all currently active transactions.  The signal \fBSIGUSR1\fP
will turn on \fBdebug\fP reporting, and subsequent \fBSIGUSR1\fP
signals, will increment the \fBdebug-level\fP. The signal \fBSIGUSR2\fP
will cause \fBradium\fP to turn off all \fBdebug\fP reporting.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.nf
$RADIUMHOME - Radium Root directory
$RADIUMPATH - Radium.conf search path (/etc:$RADIUMHOME:$HOME)
.fi

.SH FILES
.nf
/etc/radium.conf         - radium daemon configuration file 
/var/run/radium.#.#.pid  - PID file 
.fi

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Run \fBradium\fP as a daemon, reading records from a remote host,
using port 561, and writing all its transaction status reports to
\fIoutput-file\fP.  This is a typical mode.
.RS
.nf
\fBradium -S remotehost:561 -d -e `hostname` -w \fIoutput-file\fP
.fi
.RE
.LP
Collect records from multiple argi, using port 561 on one and port
430 on the other, and make all of these records available to other
programs on port 562.
.RS
.nf
\fBradium -S host1:561 -S host2:430 -de `hostname` -P 562
.fi
.RE
.LP
Collect records from multiple Cisco Netflow sources, using
the default port, and make the resulting argus records available
on port 562.
.RS
.nf
\fBradium -C -S host1 -S host2 -de `hostname` -P 562
.fi
.RE
.LP
Radium supports both input filtering and output filtering,
and radium supports multiple output streams, each with their
own independant filters.

If you are interested in distributing IP traffic only (input
filter) and want to separate traffic into differing files
based on traffic type, this simple example separates ICMP
traffic from other traffic.
.RS
.nf
\fBradium -w \fIfile1\fP "icmp" -w \fIfile2\fP "not icmp" - ip
.fi
.RE
.LP
Audit the network activity that is flowing between the two
gateway routers, whose ethernet addresses are 00:08:03:2D:42:01 and
00:00:0C:18:29:F1.  Make records available to other programs through
port 430/tcp.
.RS
.nf
\fBradium -S source -P 430 - ether host (0:8:3:2d:42:1 and 0:0:c:18:29:f1)\fP &
.fi
.RE
.LP
Process argus records from a remote source only between 9am and 5pm every day
and provide access to this stream on port 562.
.RS
.nf
\fBradium -S remotehost -t 9-17 -P 562
.fi

.RE
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radium.conf (5),
.BR argus (8),
.BR hosts_access (5),
.BR hosts_options (5),
.BR tcpd (8),
.BR tcpdump (1)
