.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RACLUSTER 1 "07 October 2003"
.SH NAME
\fBracluster\fP \- aggregate \fBargus(8)\fP data files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B racluster
[\fB\-f\fP \fIconf\fP] [\fB\-m\fP \fIagr(s)\fP] [\fB\-M\fP \fImode(s)\fP] [\fBraoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "racluster command"  ""  "\fLracluster\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Racluster
reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-data\fP source, and clusters/merges the records
based on the flow key criteria specified either on the command line, or
in a racluster configuration file, and outputs a valid \fIargus-stream\fP.
This tool is primarily used for data mining, data management and report
generation.

The default action is to merge status records from the same flow and
argus probe, providing in some cases huge data reduction with
limited loss of flow information.  Racluster provides the ability to
modify the flow model key, either using the "-m" option, or in the
racluster.conf file, allowing records to be clustered based on any
number of attributes.  This supports the development of important
reports, such as MPLS LSP usage statistics, DiffServe flow marking
policy verification, VLAN group behavior, IP distance related
measurements, routing loop detection, traceroute path data recovery,
and complex availability/reachability reports, to name just a few
useful applications.

Please see racluster.5 for detailed information regarding racluster
configuration.  

.SH OPTIONS
Racluster, like all ra based clients, supports a number of
\fBra options\fP including filtering of input argus
records through a terminating filter expression, and the ability
to specify the output style, format and contents for printing
data.  See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.
\fBracluster(1)\fP specific options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 4 4
.BI \-m "\| aggregation object\^"
Supported aggregation objects are:
.PP
.RS
.TP 15
.B none
use a null flow key.
.TP
.B srcid
argus source identifier.
.TP
.B smac
source mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B dmac
destination mac(ether) addr.
.TP
.B smpls
source mpls label.
.TP
.B dmpls
destination label addr.
.TP
.B svlan
source vlan label.
.TP
.B dvlan
destination vlan addr.
.TP
.B saddr/[l|m]
source IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k].
.TP
.B daddr/[l|m]
destination IP addr/[cidr len | m.a.s.k].
.TP
.B matrix/l
sorted src and dst IP addr/cidr len.
.TP
.B proto
transaction protocol.
.TP
.B sport
source port number.
.TP
.B dport
destination port number.
.TP
.B stos
source TOS byte value.
.TP
.B dtos
destination TOS byte value.
.TP
.B sttl
src -> dst TTL value.
.TP
.B dttl
dst -> src TTL value.
.TP
.B stcpb
src -> dst TCP base sequence number.
.TP
.B dtcpb
dst -> src TCP base sequence number.
.TP
.B inode
intermediate node, source of ICMP mapped events.
.TP
.B sco
source ARIN country code, if present.
.TP
.B dco
destination ARIN country code, if present.
.TP
.RE
.TP 4 4
.BI \-M "\| modes\^"
Supported modes are:
.PP
.RS
.TP 15
.B correct
Attempt to correct the direction of flows by also searching the reverse
flow key, if a match isn't found in the cache.  This mode is on by default
when using the default full 5-tuple flow key definitions.
.TP
.B nocorrect
Turn off flow correction for direction.  This mode is used by default
if the flow key has been changed.
.TP
.B norep
Do not generate an aggregate statistic for each flow.  This is used
primarily when the output represents a single object.  Primarily used
when merging status records to generate single flows that represent
single transactions.
.TP
.B rmon
Generate data suitable for producing RMON types of metrics.
.TP
.B ind
Process each input file independantly, so that after the end of
each inputfile, racluster flushes its output.
.TP 
.B replace
Replace each inputfile contents, with the aggregated output.
.PD
.RE
.TP 4 4
.BI \-V 
Verbose operation, printing a line of output for each input file processed.
Very useful when using the ra() -R option.
.RE

.SH INVOCATION
A sample invocation of \fBracluster(1)\fP.  This call reads \fBargus(8)\fP data
from \fBinputfile\fP and aggregates the IP protocol based \fBargus(8)\fP data,
based on the source and destination address matrix and the destination port
used by tcp flows, and report the metrics as a percent of the total.  For
most services, this provides service specific metrics on a client/server basis.
.TP 5
.nf
\fBracluster\fP -% -r inputfile -m saddr daddr dport - \\
   tcp and syn and synack

.RE
This call reads \fBargus(8)\fP data from \fBinputfile\fP and generates the 
path information that traceroute use would generate (assuming that traceroute
was run during the observation period).  
.TP 5
.nf
\fBracluster\fP -r inputfile -m saddr daddr sttl inode -w - - icmpmap  | \\
   \fBrasort\fP  -m sttl -s saddr dir daddr inode avgdur spkts


.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR racluster(5),
.BR ra(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),
.SH FILES

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH BUGS
