.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RACOUNT 1 "07 November 2000"
.SH NAME
\fBracount\fP \- count things from an \fBargus(8)\fP data file/stream.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B racount
.B -r
.I argus-file 
.I [ra options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "racount command"  ""  "\fLracount\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Racount
reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-file\fP list, and prints out various
counts from the data in the file.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
Racount, like all ra based clients, supports a number of
\fBra options\fP including filtering of input argus
records through a terminating filter expression.
See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.

.SH EXAMPLE INVOCATION
.B racount
-r argus.file
.nf
racount    records       total_pkts         src_pkts         dst_pkts      total_bytes        src_bytes        dst_bytes
    sum        279             1112              661              451           165567            94561            71006

.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra (1),
.BR rarc (5),
.BR argus (8)
