.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH RAGREP 1 "07 November 2000"
.SH NAME
\fBragrep\fP \- grep \fBargus(8)\fP user captured data.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ragrep
\fB\-e\fP \fI<regexp>\fP [\fB\-v\fP] [\fB\-i\fP]
[\fBraoptions\fP] [\fB-\fP \fIfilter-expression\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "ragrep command"  ""  "\fLragrep\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Ragrep
reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-data\fP source, greps the records based on
the regexp specified on the command line, and outputs a valid
\fIargus-stream\fP.

Ragrep works only on the fields for user captured data. Argus must be started with the configration option \fBARGUS_CAPTURE_DATA_LEN\fP set to
a value greater than 0, to have these data captured. See \fBargus.conf(5)\fP for detail.

Ragrep is based on GNU \fBgrep(1)\fP, so the \fIregexp\fP syntax is
the same as for \fBgrep(1)\fP. 
.SH OPTIONS
Ragrep, like all ra based clients, supports a number of
\fBra options\fP including filtering of input argus
records through a terminating filter expression.
See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.
\fBragrep(1)\fP specific options are:
.PP
.PD 0
.TP 4 4
.B \-e \fIregexp\fP
Use the grep(1)-compatible regular expression for filtering.

.TP
.B \-i
ignore case.

.TP
.B \-v
Reverse the expression matching logic.


.SH INVOCATION
A sample invocation of \fBragrep(1)\fP.  This call reads \fBargus(8)\fP data
from \fBinputfile\fP and greps all http transactions that generated a "404 Not Found" error.

.TP 5
\fBragrep\fP -r inputfile -e "HTTP.*404"

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra(1),
.BR rarc(5),
.BR argus(8),

.SH FILES

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
.fi
.SH BUGS
