.\" Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient, LLC
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
.\" any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.  */
.\"
.\"
.\"
.TH RAPOLICY 1 "22 July 2002"
.SH NAME
\fBrapolicy\fP \- compare a \fBargus(8)\fP data file/stream against a Cisco Access Control List.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (c) 2000-2008 QoSient. All rights reserved.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rapolicy
.B -r
.I argus-file 
.I [ra options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "rapolicy command"  ""  "\fLrapolicy\fP \(em argus data"
.LP
.B Rapolicy
reads
.BR argus
data from an \fIargus-file\fP list, and tests the argus data
stream  against a Cisco access control list configuration file,
printing out records that represent activity that would violate
the policy.
.B Rapolicy
can be used to indicate access control violations, as well as
test new access control definitions prior to installing them
in a router.
.SH OPTIONS
\fBRapolicy\fP, like all \fBra\fP based clients, supports a large
number of options.  Options that have specific meaning to \fBrapolicy\fP
are:

.nf
   -f <Cisco ACL file> Print records that violate the policy.
   -D 0 (default)      Print records that violate the policy.
   -D 1                Print records and the violated ruleset.
   -D 2                Print all records and the ruleset that matched.

See \fBra(1)\fP for a complete description of \fBra options\fP.
.SH EXAMPLE INVOCATION
.B rapolicy
-r argus.file
.nf
.SH CISCO ACL SYNTAX
There does not seem to be authoritative Cisco-ACL-Documentation,
nor ACL syntax standardization.  Because Cisco has been know to
improve its ACL rules syntax, \fBrapolicy\fP is known to work with
Cisco ACL router defintions up to July, 2002.

A Cisco ACL configuration file consists of a collection of any
number of ACL statements, each on a separte line.  The syntax
of an ACL statement is:

.nf
   ACL        = "access-list" ID ACTION PROTOCOL SRC DST NOTIFICATION
   
   ID         = Number
   ACTION     = permit | deny
   PROTO      = protocol name | protocol number
   
   SRC | DST  = ADDRESS [PORTMATCH]
   
   ADDRESS    = any | host HOSTADDR | HOSTADDR HOSTMASK
   HOSTADDR   = ipV4 address
   HOSTMASK   = matching-mask
   
   PORTMATCH  = PORTOP PORTNUM | range PORTRANGE
   PORTOP     = eq | lt | gt | neq | established 
   
   PORTRANGE  =  PORTNUM PORTNUM
   PORTNUM    =  TCP or UDP port value (unsigned decimal from 0 to 65535)


.SH EXAMPLE CONFIGURATION
This example Cisco Access Control List configuration is provided as
an example only.  No effort has been made to verify that this example
Access Control List enforces a useful access control policy of any
kind.

.nf
#allow www-traffic to webserver
access-list 102 permit tcp any 193.174.13.99 0.0.0.0 eq 80

#allow ftp control connection to server
access-list 102 permit tcp any 193.174.13.99 0.0.0.0 eq 21

#allow normal ftp
access-list 102 permit tcp any 193.174.13.99 0.0.0.0 eq 20

#allow ftp passive conncetions in portrange 10000 to 10500
access-list 102 permit tcp any host 193.174.13.99 range 10000 10500

#dummy example
access-list 102 permit tcp host 193.174.13.1 eq 12345 host 193.174.13.2 range 12345 23456

#deny the rest
access-list 102 deny tcp any any

#same thing in other words:
access-list 102 deny tcp 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255 0.0.0.0 255.255.255.255
.fi

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Carter Bullard (carter@qosient.com).
Olaf Gellert (gellert@pca.dfn.de).
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ra (1),
.BR rarc (5),
.BR argus (8)
